
REPORT-BUG-TO-GITHUB
Report bugs to GitHub with AI-assisted context gathering. Automatically collects system information, git status, work unit context, and recent error logs to create a pre-filled GitHub issue.

WHEN TO USE
  Use when you encounter a bug in fspec and want to report it to the maintainers. This command gathers all relevant context automatically, making it easy to create comprehensive bug reports without manually collecting system information.

PREREQUISITES
  • fspec must be installed (to gather version information)
  • Git repository (optional, for git context)
  • Work units file (optional, for work unit context)
  • Browser installed (to open GitHub issue)

USAGE
  fspec report-bug-to-github [options]

OPTIONS
  --project-root <path>
    Project root directory (default: auto-detected)
  --bug-description <text>
    Brief description of the bug
  --expected-behavior <text>
    What you expected to happen
  --actual-behavior <text>
    What actually happened
  --interactive
    Enable interactive mode with prompts for bug details

TYPICAL WORKFLOW
  Encounter a bug while using fspec,Run: fspec report-bug-to-github,System automatically gathers context (version, platform, git status, work unit),Browser opens with pre-filled GitHub issue,Review and submit the issue

EXAMPLES
  1. Generate bug report with automatic context gathering and open in browser
  $ fspec report-bug-to-github
  Gathering system context...
✓ fspec version: 0.6.0
✓ Node version: v22.20.0
✓ Platform: linux
✓ Git branch: feature-branch
✓ Work unit: CLI-014 - Report bug to GitHub

Opening GitHub issue in browser...
✓ Browser opened with pre-filled issue

  2. Report bug with description
  $ fspec report-bug-to-github --bug-description "Validation command crashes"
  Gathering system context...
✓ Generated bug report
✓ Opening browser with pre-filled issue

  3. Interactive bug reporting with prompts
  $ fspec report-bug-to-github --interactive
  What command were you running? fspec validate
What did you expect to happen? Successful validation
What actually happened? Command crashed

Generating bug report...
✓ Opening browser with pre-filled issue

COMMON ERRORS
  ✗ Browser failed to open
    Fix: undefined

  ✗ No work unit context found
    Fix: undefined

RELATED COMMANDS
  fspec fspec validate - Validate feature files
  fspec fspec check - Run comprehensive validation
  fspec fspec show-work-unit - View work unit details

NOTES
  • Automatically includes: fspec version, Node version, OS platform
  • Git context: current branch, uncommitted changes status
  • Work unit context: ID, title, status, related feature file
  • Error logs: recent errors from .fspec/error-logs/
  • All data is URL-encoded for GitHub issue form
  • The command does NOT automatically submit the issue - you review first
  • Special characters and code blocks are properly escaped
  • Supports both interactive and non-interactive modes

